It is a good idea to always see what happens when use programs (or commands) incorrectly. Eg. trying to use `cd` or `ls` on a directory which does not exist, remoning a file which doesn't exist, and to use `mkdir` with a directory which already exist.

You are encourgade to try those.

= Exercises for first session of Bash course on Yabs =
== First steps ==

# Use the `ls`, `cd`, `mkidr`, and `touch` programs to create a directory called _exercises_. Step into the directory, and create a file called _file.txt_. Verify that it exist.

# Step out of your newly created directory with `cd` command. Try to remove the directory with `rmdir`. Note what happens.

# Remove the directory by first removing the file and then the directory.

# Use the `ls`, `cd`, `mkidr`, and `touch` programs to create a directory called _exercises_. Step into the directory, and create a file called _file.txt_. Verify that it exist.

# Rename the newly created file to _txt.elif_ with `mv` command. 

# Copy the newly created file to _file.txt_ with `cp` command. Verify the last two steps with `ls`.

# Move _file.txt_ to _

# Step out of the directory and remove the directory by running `rm -r` on the directory. Note what happens.

# A lot of commands use the verbose flag as an option (_--verbose__, or _-v_ for short). Will they work for `ls` and `cd`?

== Finding information ==

*Note:* Not all of these commands are available in `Git Bash`. The information is available on-line, if you need them.

*Note:* Some installations of these packages have manuals in other languages than English, depending on how your system is configured.

# Check the `man` page for `cat`. Who wrote the progam?

# Figure out how to exit the `man` page to the shell prompt again by only pressing one letter on your keyboard.

# Compare if the `info` page for `cat` looks the same. Figure out how (and if) they differ, and then how to leave an `info` page.

# Run the `whatis` for the `cat` and see what information shows.

# Run `cat` with the `--help` flag.

# You can try to run for other commands other than `cat`. Should `cd` and `ls` have manual or information pages?

# What will happen when you run `cat` without arguments? (Use Ctrl d to exit.)

*Note:* When you manage the pages and the help flag, you should try using those a bit in the future.

== File content ==

# With your favourite editor, create two files _a.txt_ and _b.txt_ with some content which differs.

# Run `cat`, `head`, and `tail` on your newly created files. Run the commands with just one file or the other, as well as with both as arguments to observe how they differ.

*Note:* With `head` and `tail` you can specify what number of lines you want (starting from top or from bottom). What should happend if this is a negative number?

# Run `less` on those as well, in the same manner.

== Finding programs ==

# Run `command` (without `-v` flag) with `ls` command. Check why it does so with the help pages. What does `command` do?

# Run `command -v` with `ls`. Are they the same? Depending on your system, they might differ.

== Piping ==

# Run `ls | wc -l` to see how many files are located in your directory.

# Run `ls > file.txt` and check the content of the file.

# Run `< file.txt wc -l` to verify if it gives the same result as expected. What has changed?

# Run `echo eof >> file.txt` and verify with `cat` that the file content has changed. Run `tail -n 1` on the file as well.

# What would happen if you ran `head -n -1 file.txt`? Try it.

# What would happen if you ran `tail -n -1 file.txt`? Try it.

== Combining commands ==

# Run these combinations:
## Run `ls; echo "hello"`.
## Run `ls || echo "hello"`.
## Run `ls && echo "hello"`.
# Note how and if they differ. Replace one or the other side of theese examples with `true` and `false`.

# What would `(echo Hello; echo Young || echo Devils) && echo Aces` result in?

*Note:* Missing one & or | in these exampels will result in quite different results.

== More core utils ==
Play around with the commands listed in the presentation.

For the interested in the source code of the GNU's core utils are available here: https://github.com/coreutils/coreutils

Suckless tools has their implementations here: https://git.suckless.org/sbase/files.html

Compare their implementation of _true.c_ and _false.c_. Which is neater?
